Hello everyone.
In this section we are going to try the reverse number program.
Using the same program, you can achieve one more solution that is finding a number is palindrome or
not.
Remember to reverse a number.
We are not using any string operation.
Rather, we will apply maths and logic together to reverse a number.
So let's understand the problem first.
When we run the code, we expect that the programme will ask the user to enter a number.
For example, the user enters 2345.
Then the output should be.
5432.
That is the number.
User enter was 2345 and the output is five, four, three, two.
That is the number is reversed.
Let's understand the basics, how to achieve the solution, and then will also try to understand the
pseudocode of it.
Now, because we are not allowed to use any string functions and pure logic only, we will have to use
arithmetic operators to reverse the number.
Let's see, two, three, four, five is the number which we are supposed to reverse.
Now the numeric system, the use has the base of ten.
Now we want to reverse the number.
So now the last number you see in two, three, four, five is five.
So how did you get this number five?
If you use the modulus, that is percentage on the number.
That is if I write two, three, four or five modulus ten, then because the remainder will be filed
in this number, we will get five as a separate number.
Now next step is we need to remove five from two, three, four, five.
So for that, we can use two, three, four, five divided by ten.
When we do this, five will be removed from this and it will remain only two, three and four.
Now the number is two, three, four.
And if we do the same process, that is two, three, four, modulus ten, then the remainder will be
four.
But the main question is how will we join this previous remainder five and this new remainder four?
Because now we want 54.
For that, if we multiply this previous remainder, that is five into ten.
And if we add this new remainder that is four, then it will make sense.
This kind of operation we will do till the number is more than zero.
Let's try this in pseudocode.
And then again, we will try to understand the entire flow.
So first thing I will use num variable where there will be an input from the user for reverse number.
I take one variable and of course for the remainder I take one more variable and all variables we initialize
with zero.
That is both RTV and RDM.
We make it zero.
Now we want to put a loop.
It will be till number is greater than zero.
So the loop will go till the number is more than zero.
Now, as we discussed, to take the remainder first thing, what we will do is will take RBM is equal
to the number modulus ten.
Let's write all the lines first of all, and then we will understand the steps we discussed earlier
in the logic part.
Assume that when the code is run, NUM will have two, three, four and five.
Now we have this two, three, four, five.
When the program goes inside this loop, first thing, two, three, four, five, modulus ten.
So RTM will be five.
The next thing is, as we discussed, that we need to add the previous and the new remainder.
So what will we do?
We will see the reverse number we multiplied by ten and also add the remainder.
Now initially reversed number RTV is zero zero and 210 will be zero only plus RTM.
So five will be added to RTV.
Now RTV is five.
So variable num will be two, three, four.
That is 234.
The next thing is two, three, four, modulus ten.
So RDM will have four in it.
We already have ATV as fire.
So fire into ten is 50 plus four, so it'll become 54 now.
Again, we divide the number, we make it 23.
So number is 23.
Now it goes on this line where 23 modulus ten.
Three will be in R.E.M. now.
So 54 into ten plus three.
This is how it goes till the end.
That is, unless the number doesn't reach to zero at the end, we just display the reverse number.
That is also one more program we have achieved here, and that is to check the number is palindrome
or not.
If a number is seen from left and right, then it is a palindrome number.
For example, one, two, one.
If you read this number from left to right or right to left, it is 121 only in the above code.
If you compare the original number and the reverse, that is the final reverse number.
If they both are same, then the number is a palindrome number.
Otherwise it is not.
Of course, in the above code we will have to take an extra variable for the original number as we are
dividing number so it loses its original value.
I leave it to you to practice on palindrome, but you can leave comments if you have any doubts.
Now let's try it practically in the code editor.
I will use variable name.
Of course I'm going to convert it into integer and I use a statement which takes an input from the user.
I declared two more variables as we have discussed in pseudocode, reverse and remainder.
We'll put a loop.
Where I'll say while.
Number is greater than zero.
Remainder is equal to number modulus ten.
Then reverse is equal to reverse into ten plus remainder.
So here I am using part end in JavaScript because when you divide the number it will return our decimal
value.
So we want to make sure that all the decimal points are avoided.
So I'm using the parts in here.
And at the end we print the value of Adobe.
Let's try to run this and see what happens.
Let us enter.
Two, three, four, five.
As you can see, the output is.
Five, four, three, two.
This is how you reverse a number.
Remember, we have not used any string functions, any ready string functions to reverse the number.
There are ways where you can convert the number into string, but that's an easier way.
Whereas this practice is this allows you to think lot of possibilities with operators as well.